.TH E9PATCH "1" "April 2023" "E9Patch" "E9Patch"
.SH NAME
E9Patch \- a powerful static binary rewriting tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
e9patch [\fBOPTIONS\fR]
.PP
See below for the full list of options.
.SH DESCRIPTION
E9Patch is a powerful static rewriting for (stripped) x86_64 Linux ELF and
Windows PE binaries.
E9Patch is primarily designed for robustness, and can scale to very large
complex/binaries without introducing rewriting errors.
.PP
E9Patch is a low-level tool that is not designed to be used directly.
Instead, E9Patch should be invoked using a suitable \fIfrontend\fR, such as
E9Tool.
Please see the E9Tool manpage for more information.
.PP
For more information about advanced E9Patch usage, please refer to the
following document:
.IP
\fI/usr/share/doc/e9patch/e9patch-programming-guide.html\fR
.SH OUTPUT
.PP
E9Patch will output information about the patching progress in three main
phases.
The first phase tracks instruction patching success or failure:
.IP
\fB\[char46]\fR = Instruction was patched successfully
.br
\fBT\fR = Instruction was patched with tactic B0
.br
\fBX\fR = Instruction could not be patched
.PP
The second phase tracks physical memory compression:
.IP
\fB+\fR = Service the virtual mapping with a new physical mapping
.br
\fBM\fR = Merge the virtual mapping into an existing physical mapping
.PP
The final phase prints the physical memory utilization:
.IP
\fB[hex]\fR = Each physical mapping utilization, higher = better
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-Ocall\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]" 4
Relocate any call instruction "as-is" (do not correct the
return address.  May break transparency for some binaries.
.br
Default: \fBfalse\fR (disabled)
.IP "\fB\-OCFR\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]" 4
Enables [disables] heuristic-based "Control-Flow Recovery"
(CRF) analysis and related optimizations.  This usually makes
the rewritten binary much faster, but may introduce rewriting
bugs if the built-in CRF analysis is inaccurate.
.br
Default: \fBfalse\fR (disabled)
.IP "\fB\-OCFR-hacks\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]" 4
Makes -OCFR even more conservative.  This may help some
binaries that use non-standard relocations.
.br
Default: \fBfalse\fR (disabled)
.IP "\fB\-Oepilogue\fR=\fI\,N\/\fR" 4
Append a epilogue of up to N instructions to the end of each
trampoline.  This may enhance \fB\-Opeephole\fR.
.br
Default: \fB0\fR (disabled)
.IP "\fB\-Oepilogue\-size\fR=\fI\,N\/\fR" 4
Additionally limits \fB\-Oepilogue\fR to N instruction bytes.
.br
Default: \fB64\fR
.IP "\fB\-Oorder\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]" 4
Enables [disables] the ordering of trampolines with respect
to the original instruction ordering (as much as is possible).
This may enhance \fB\-Opeephole\fR.
.br
Default: \fBfalse\fR (disabled)
.IP "\fB\-Opeephole\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]" 4
Enables [disables] jump peephole optimization.
.br
Default: \fBtrue\fR (enabled)
.IP "\fB\-Oprologue\fR=\fI\,N\/\fR" 4
Prepend a prologue of up to N instructions to the start of each
trampoline.  This may enhance \fB\-Opeephole\fR.  Requires \fB\-\-batch\fR.
.br
Default: \fB0\fR (disabled)
.IP "\fB\-Oprologue\-size\fR=\fI\,N\/\fR" 4
Additionally limits \fB\-Oprologue\fR to N instruction bytes.
.br
Default: \fB64\fR
.IP "\fB\-Oscratch\-stack\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]" 4
Allow the stack to be used as scratch space.
This allows faster code to be emitted, but may break transparency.
.br
Default: \fBfalse\fR (disabled)
.IP "\fB\-\-batch\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]" 4
Rewrite the binary in one batch rather than incrementally.
.br
Default: \fBfalse\fR (disabled)
.IP "\fB\-\-debug\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]" 4
Enable [disable] debug log messages.
.br
Default: \fBfalse\fR (disabled)
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR, \fB\-h\fR" 4
Print the help message and exit.
.IP "\fB\-\-input\fR FILE, \fB\-i\fR FILE" 4
Read input from FILE instead of stdin.
.IP "\fB\-\-output\fR FILE, \fB\-o\fR FILE" 4
Write output to FILE instead of stdout.
.IP "\fB\-\-loader\-base\fR=\fI\,ADDR\/\fR" 4
Set ADDR to be the base address of the program loader.
Only relevant for ELF binaries.
.br
Default: 0x20e9e9000
.IP "\fB\-\-loader\-phdr\fR=\fI\,PHDR\/\fR" 4
Overwrite the corresponding PHDR to load the loader.
Valid values are "note", "relro", and "stack" for PT_NOTE, PT_RELRO
and PT_GNU_STACK respectively, or "any" to select any of the
above values.  Note that selecting any value other than "note"
may relax the memory permissions in the patched binary.
Only relevant for ELF binaries.
.br
Default: note
.IP "\fB\-\-loader\-static\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]" 4
Enable [disable] the static loading of patched pages.
By default, patched pages are loaded dynamically during program
initialization (this is more reliable for complex binaries).
However, this can also bloat patched binary size.
Only relevant for ELF binaries.
.br
Default: \fBfalse\fR (disabled)
.IP "\fB\-\-log\fR=\fI\,[false]\/\fR" 4
Enable [disable] log output.
.br
Default: \fBtrue\fR (enabled)
.IP "\fB\-\-mem\-granularity\fR=\fI\,SIZE\/\fR" 4
Set SIZE to be the granularity used for the physical page
grouping memory optimization.  Higher values result in
higher CPU+memory usage during rewriting, but also smaller
output binary files (i.e., better compression).  Here, SIZE
must be one of {128,4096}.
.br
Default: \fB128\fR
.IP "\fB\-\-mem\-lb\fR=\fI\,LB\/\fR" 4
Set LB to be the minimum allowable trampoline address.
.IP "\fB\-\-mem\-ub\fR=\fI\,UB\/\fR" 4
Set UB to be the maximum allowable trampoline address.
.IP "\fB\-\-mem\-mapping\-size\fR=\fI\,SIZE\/\fR" 4
Set the mapping size to SIZE which must be a power\-of\-two
multiple of the page size (4096).  Larger values result in
less virtual mappings being used, but larger output binary
files (i.e., worse compression).
.br
Default: \fB4096\fR
.IP "\fB\-\-mem\-multi\-page\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]" 4
Enable [disable] trampolines that cross page boundaries.
.br
Default: \fBtrue\fR (enabled)
.IP "\fB\-\-mem\-rebase\fR[=\fI\,ADDR\/\fR]" 4
Rebase the binary to the absolute address ADDR.
Only relevant for Windows PE binaries.
The special values "auto"
or "random" will cause a suitable base address to be chosen
automatically/randomly.  The special value "none" leaves the
original base intact.
.br
Default: \fBnone\fR (disabled)
.IP "\fB\-\-tactic\-B0\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]" 4
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-tactic\-B1\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]" 4
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-tactic\-B2\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]" 4
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-tactic\-T1\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]" 4
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-tactic\-T2\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]" 4
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-tactic\-T3\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]" 4
.PD
Enables [disables] corresponding tactic (B1/B2/T1/T2/T3).
.br
Default: \fBtrue\fR (enabled) for B1/B2/T1/T2/T3
         \fBfalse\fR (disabled) for B0
.TP
\fB\-\-tactic\-backward\-T3\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]
Enables [disables] backward jumps for tactic T3.
.br
Default: \fBtrue\fR (enabled)
.TP
\fB\-\-trap\fR=\fI\,ADDR\/\fR
Insert a trap (int3) instruction at the trampoline entry for
the instruction at address ADDR.  This can be used to debug
the trampoline using GDB.
.TP
\fB\-\-trap\-all\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]
Enable [disable] the insertion of a trap (int3) instruction at
all trampoline entries.
.br
Default: \fBfalse\fR (disabled)
.TP
\fB\-\-trap\-entry\fR[=\fI\,false\/\fR]
Enable [disable] the insertion of a trap (int3) at the program
loader entry\-point.
.br
Default: \fBfalse\fR (disabled)
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Print the version and exit.
.SH "TROUBLESHOOTING"
The instrumented binary may sometimes fail to run properly.
See below for solutions to common problems.
.TP
\fBe9patch loader error: mmap(...) failed (errno=12)\fR
This occurs when the instrumented binary uses too many mappings.
This can usually be fixed by lowering the compression level,
see the \fB--compression\fR option for E9Tool (see \fBman e9tool\fR).
.TP
\fBTrace/breakpoint trap\fR
If using Control Flow Recovery (CFR) mode, the input binary may be
incompatible.
Disable CFR to resolve the issue.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIe9tool\fR(1), \fIe9compile\fR(1), \fIe9afl\fR(1), \fIredfat\fR(1)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBe9patch\fR is written by Gregory J. Duck <gregory@comp.nus.edu.sg>.
